README.md, before:

# Wowza Installers
I got tired to run the same commands over and over again when i was testing with wowza. So i made some installers for it.
I mainly focus on Ubuntu setups, although i have make new CentOS installers too when i feel like it.

## Prerequisites - (free) wowza account
* Create a free account at wowza. After that login and then open this url: https://www.wowza.com/media-server/developers/license
* you will get straight to the trial form. All you have to do is check some boxes and start the request for the developer license
- If you have an enterprise license, you can use that one. Check with Wowza Support if your license is valid for the next version.
* you have a default installed CentOS 7.x server or Ubuntu 18.04.x server installed

## update april 29 2020
- New installer for CentOS 7.7.1908 including Java OpenJDK 11 (run as user with administrator privileges)


## Update march 21 2020
- New ubuntu 18.04.x + Wowza StreamingEngine 4.8.0 incl java 11
- Wowza 4.8.0 requires a minimum of Java version 9.0.4
- CSF firewall including the necessary ports, It will also add the java version to Wowza.

## Wowza developer license limitations
- This will have limitations on 3 input stream and max 10 output streams


## Fresh Installers so far.
* Ubuntu 18.04.x Installer - 4.8.0          / Java 11 (comes default with Ubuntu 18.04)
* Ubuntu 18.04.x Installer - Wowza 4.7.7    / Oracle Java JDK 8u202

* CentOS 7.7.1908 Installer - Wowza 4.8.0   / Oracle Java JDK java-11-openjdk-11.0.7.10-4.el7_8.x86_64
* CentOS 7.6 Installer - Wowza 4.7.7        / Oracle Java JDK 8u202


## Todo: 
- upgrade installer from 4.7.7 > 4.8.0
- upgrade java only on existing system
- restore installer update to previous version (in case of update failure)

## What will be installed
* system will be updated & upgraded
* Java will be installed and connected to Wowza
* Basic Wowza Streaming Engine will be installed
* CSF (Firewall) be installed & automatic configured with the ports needed including your ssh port

## The CSF (Firewall) part below will be the same in all installers.

## Firewall ports that will be set
```
Port 53: Domain name system (DNS)
Port 80: Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP)
Port 113: Authentication service/identification protocol
Port 123: Network time protocol (NTP)

Port SSH_PORT: your current ssh port will be set in CSF
SKIP Ports: 137/138/139/445 - samba ports.

#Wowza Ports
#TCP IN:
Port 1935	    : RTMP (all variants), RTSP, Microsoft Smooth Streaming, Apple HLS, MPEG-DASH, HDS, WOWZ
Port 8084-8085  : JMX/JConsole monitoring and administration
Port 8086-8087  : HTTP Administrator
Port 8088		: Wowza Streaming Engine Manager
Port 554		: RTSP
Port 443		: SSL Connections
Port 80		    : Licensing server connections / 

UDP IN			
Port 6790-9999  : UDP incoming streams
```

## Installation
* Login via ssh to your server.
* Download the (raw) installer script of your choice to your server: wget 
* make the file executable: chmod +x installer_script
* run the script with sudo ./installer_script

Several questions will be asked
- Set a username and paswword for your wowza backend (weblogin)
- Answer the other questions with: Y
```
Enter a user name and password that will be used to manage Wowza Streaming
Engine.
User Name: []: wowza

Password: :
Confirm Password: :
Note: User Name and Password are case-sensitive.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Startup Configuration

Start Wowza Streaming Engine automatically [Y/n]: y

Clear the check box to start Wowza Streaming Engine manually.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Setup is now ready to begin installing Wowza Streaming Engine on your computer.

Do you want to continue? [Y/n]: y
```
You will be notified with the login url after the installation has completed

## Enjoy!

Commit message:

readme update june 23 2020 - SSL letsencrypt configuration

README.md, after:

# Wowza Installers
I got tired to run the same commands over and over again when i was testing with wowza. So i made some installers for it.
I mainly focus on Ubuntu setups, although i have make new CentOS installers too when i feel like it.

## Prerequisites - (free) wowza account
* Create a free account at wowza. After that login and then open this url: https://www.wowza.com/media-server/developers/license
* you will get straight to the trial form. All you have to do is check some boxes and start the request for the developer license
- If you have an enterprise license, you can use that one. Check with Wowza Support if your license is valid for the next version.
* you have a default installed CentOS 7.x server or Ubuntu 18.04.x server installed

## update june 23 2020
- updated configuration setup for CentOS 7 and Ubuntu 20.04 for enabling SSL Letsencrypt.

## update april 29 2020
- New installer for CentOS 7.7.1908 including Java OpenJDK 11 (run as user with administrator privileges)


## Update march 21 2020
- New ubuntu 18.04.x + Wowza StreamingEngine 4.8.0 incl java 11
- Wowza 4.8.0 requires a minimum of Java version 9.0.4
- CSF firewall including the necessary ports, It will also add the java version to Wowza.

## Wowza developer license limitations
- This will have limitations on 3 input stream and max 10 output streams


## Fresh Installers so far.
* Ubuntu 18.04.x Installer - 4.8.0          / Java 11 (comes default with Ubuntu 18.04)
* Ubuntu 18.04.x Installer - Wowza 4.7.7    / Oracle Java JDK 8u202

* CentOS 7.7.1908 Installer - Wowza 4.8.0   / Oracle Java JDK java-11-openjdk-11.0.7.10-4.el7_8.x86_64
* CentOS 7.6 Installer - Wowza 4.7.7        / Oracle Java JDK 8u202


## Todo: 
- upgrade installer from 4.7.7 > 4.8.0
- upgrade java only on existing system
- restore installer update to previous version (in case of update failure)

## What will be installed
* system will be updated & upgraded
* Java will be installed and connected to Wowza
* Basic Wowza Streaming Engine will be installed
* CSF (Firewall) be installed & automatic configured with the ports needed including your ssh port

## The CSF (Firewall) part below will be the same in all installers.

## Firewall ports that will be set
```
Port 53: Domain name system (DNS)
Port 80: Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP)
Port 113: Authentication service/identification protocol
Port 123: Network time protocol (NTP)

Port SSH_PORT: your current ssh port will be set in CSF
SKIP Ports: 137/138/139/445 - samba ports.

#Wowza Ports
#TCP IN:
Port 1935	    : RTMP (all variants), RTSP, Microsoft Smooth Streaming, Apple HLS, MPEG-DASH, HDS, WOWZ
Port 8084-8085  : JMX/JConsole monitoring and administration
Port 8086-8087  : HTTP Administrator
Port 8088		: Wowza Streaming Engine Manager
Port 554		: RTSP
Port 443		: SSL Connections
Port 80		    : Licensing server connections / 

UDP IN			
Port 6790-9999  : UDP incoming streams
```

## Installation
* Login via ssh to your server.
* Download the (raw) installer script of your choice to your server: wget 
* make the file executable: chmod +x installer_script
* run the script with sudo ./installer_script

Several questions will be asked
- Set a username and paswword for your wowza backend (weblogin)
- Answer the other questions with: Y
```
Enter a user name and password that will be used to manage Wowza Streaming
Engine.
User Name: []: wowza

Password: :
Confirm Password: :
Note: User Name and Password are case-sensitive.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Startup Configuration

Start Wowza Streaming Engine automatically [Y/n]: y

Clear the check box to start Wowza Streaming Engine manually.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Setup is now ready to begin installing Wowza Streaming Engine on your computer.

Do you want to continue? [Y/n]: y
```
You will be notified with the login url after the installation has completed

## Enjoy!
